there was a time in our relationship
Tara and I where I very much thought
that I
was Superior if you feel like you're
better than somebody when you're
fighting with them it makes it
incredibly hard for that fight to be a
constructive productive fight I found
out that this is actually really really
common when I started coaching in
relationships and it's not just common
there's a very particular pattern that
it's usually common with so typically in
relationships one person is more
intellectual and one person is more
emotional right so you probably know
which one you are like by the look on
your face right and so the person who's
intellectual often feels like they're
right more of the time and the person
who's emotional often feels like they're
wrong more of the time this is the
dynamic now the reason that people feel
like they're right that they need to
feel Superior and they can judge other
people is because there's emotions that
they don't want to feel whenever we're
judging anybody including ourselves it's
because we don't want to feel a certain
emotion
and
so that makes the fight detrimental
because basically we're trying to
control the other person so that we
don't have to feel a certain emotion
right and so controlling somebody else
is you doesn't make fights productive so
the dynamic is one person's emotional
one person's more logical the logical
person feels like they're right more of
the time the emotional person often
feels like they're wrong but there's a
little part of them that's like no I'm
not like that's also you see and and so
that's like the the that's like the
typical Dynamic and then people will
agree on this relationship Dynamic for
an extended period of time sometimes a
whole marriage they're the smart one
they're the right one I'm the emotional
one but the reason that we're like
attracted to one another is because
we're there to learn I learned really
about my emotions through being with
Tara and that was the like one of the
biggest blessings of our relationship
and for Tara there was a learning of how
to be in her emotions and having that
emotional fluidity without being
completely controlled by them and not
and feel taken away by them and that was
the learning one of the big learnings
for her in the relationship and so we're
often attracted to that person because
that's the thing that we're there to
learn but if we're fighting and we're
thinking oh we're better than the other
person what that's actually doing is
we're not feeling an emotion which means
we're trying to control the other person
not to feel emotion trying to control
somebody well that doesn't make for a
good fight nobody wants to be controlled
nobody's like
hey could you control me like in a way
that I'm not okay with you know there's
obviously you know there's there's a
whole bunch of edsm stuff that it says
hey yeah control is but we don't want to
be controlled in a way that we're
actually going against our will we want
to have maybe some play there but it's
not something that anybody signs up for
and so and so that doesn't make it
productive it's not there for the growth
and so that's one of the reasons the
other thing that's happening is that the
way the conflict works the way the fight
works is that it's there to show us what
we're missing and often what we're
missing is something that's been hidden
to Us hidden from us through the trauma
and so if we don't feel the emotions
then we're not actually healing the
trauma and so the fight doesn't get to
the next
level so it's really important if you're
noticing when you're in a fight oh I am
thinking I'm better than the other
person the question is what am I not
feeling what do I need to feel right now
and by feeling that emotion that's how
you make the fight really productive
there's this thing and you'll notice it
you're like oh I'm avoiding it during
the fight like I yeah and you kind of
can see it out of the corner of your eye
and maybe you have that like thought you
know the one where it's like oh
maybe it's like that's the thing when
you're in the fight that's where you
want to go because that's where your
healing is going to be that's where the
productivity is going to that's where
you're both going to be able to find a
solution that you couldn't see
before and without that you're never
going to get there and and by putting
yourself above the other
person it just completely cuts off that
possibility you know outside of the
fight there's a lot of benefit to not
like putting yourself above somebody
else um I think to me when I used to do
that the thing I couldn't see when I was
putting myself above people terara
anybody was that I was creating
separation like it prevented me from
actually being seen it prevented me from
having the connection that I wanted it
prevented me from feeling being in full
contact with life being in full contact
with Tara it was basically a protective
move and whenever we do anything that's
protective like thinking that we're
better than somebody else we're also
pushing them away we're saying so even
if we are saying Hey I want you we're
also pushing away at the same time
and and when we do that we never
actually feel fulfilled we never like
you don't can't think of anybody who's
walking around going I'm better than
everybody and and I I feel deeply
fulfilled it just doesn't it doesn't
happen there's always with with the I'm
feeling better than you there is always
an underlying shame of I'm not good
enough they go hand in hand and you can
work on I'm not good enough but you can
also work on the I'm better and both
both of them they balance each other out
so when you get to the place of not
thinking like oh I'm better than
everybody or anybody or a person as that
happens the shame also erodes at the
same pace
[Music]